README.md, before:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# ggplot-extension-club

A repository as a [discussion
place](https://github.com/teunbrand/ggplot-extension-club/discussions)
for extending the ggplot2 R package.

As a bit of background: some people have been meeting virtually every
few months and discussing ggplot2 extension.

This repository will accommodate some discussion outside those meetings
and coordination efforts. Feel free to participate in discussions and be
in touch!

Meetings:

- Tentative June, David Gohels,
  [{ggiraph}](https://davidgohel.github.io/ggiraph/)

- Tentative May, Cynthia Huang, Design principles for plot helper
  functions

- Tentative April, Hassan Kibirige, [plotnine](https://plotnine.org/): A
  Grammar of Graphics for Python

- 2025-03-05, Winston Chang, [The R Graphics
  Cookbook](https://r-graphics.org/) & ggproto

- 2025-02-12, Mitchell O’Hara-Wild, {ggtime} proposal

- 2025-01-21, Teun van den Brand,
  [{legendry}](https://github.com/teunbrand/legendry)

- 2024-12-10, Richard Hanna,
  [{ggswim}](https://github.com/CHOP-CGTInformatics/ggswim)

- 2024-11-13, Cory Brunson,
  [{ordr}](https://github.com/corybrunson/ordr/)

- 2024-10-24, Hadley Wickham,
  [{ggplot2}](https://github.com/tidyverse/ggplot2/), Thoughts on the
  ggplot2 extension ecosystem
  [(recording)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kjjcgdkowXs&feature=youtu.be)

- 2024-10-02, Joseph Larmarange,
  [{ggstats}](https://github.com/larmarange/ggstats/), gglikert() and
  geom_likert()

- 2024-09-10, James Otto,
  [{ggdensity}](https://github.com/jamesotto852/ggdensity/), IRL
  extension culture

- 2024-08-19, Toby Hocking,
  [{animint2}](https://github.com/animint/animint2)

- 2024-06-22, Elio Campitelli,
  [{ggnewscale}](https://github.com/eliocamp/ggnewscale/)

- 2024-05-11, Jonathan Sidi,
  [{ggedit}](https://github.com/yonicd/ggedit)

- 2024-03-12, Di Cook, [{GGally}](https://github.com/ggobi/ggally/), A
  conversation with Di Cook

- 2024-02-10, Malcolm Barrett,
  [{ggdag}](https://github.com/r-causal/ggdag/)

- 2023-11-04, Nicola Rennie,
  [{ggflowchart}](https://github.com/nrennie/ggflowchart)

- 2023-11-04, W. Joel Schneider,
  [{arrowheadr}](https://github.com/wjschne/arrowheadr)

- 2023-09-02, Jonathan Carroll,
  [{ggeasy}](https://github.com/jonocarroll/ggeasy/)

- 2023-06-10, Daniel Sjoberg,
  [{ggsurvfit}](https://github.com/pharmaverse/ggsurvfit/)

- 2023-04-15, Gina Reynolds,
  [{ggcirclepack}](https://github.com/EvaMaeRey/ggcirclepack)

- 2022-01-28, Claus Wilke, [‘Fundamentals of Data
  Visualization’](https://github.com/clauswilke/dataviz) book project

- 2022-07-16, June Choe,
  [{ggtrace}](https://github.com/yjunechoe/ggtrace/)

- 2022-06-11, Teun van den Brand,
  [{ggh4x}](https://github.com/teunbrand/ggh4x/)

- 2022-05-07, Allan Cameron,
  [{geomtextpath}](https://github.com/AllanCameron/geomtextpath/)

- 2022-04-09, David Sjoberg,
  [{ggbump}](https://github.com/davidsjoberg/ggbump)

- 2022-03-19, First meeting

<!-- -   [{animint2}](https://github.com/animint/animint2), Toby Hocking, August 19, 2024 -->
<!-- Past meetings -->
<!-- -   [{ggnewscale}](https://eliocamp.github.io/ggnewscale/), Elio Campitelli, June 22/23, 2024 -->
<!-- -   [{ggedit}](https://yonicd.github.io/ggedit/), Jonathan Sidi, May 11, 2024 -->
<!-- -   A conversation with Di Cook, early extension and [{GGally}](https://ggobi.github.io/ggally/), March 12/13, 2024 -->
<!-- -   [{ggdag}](https://r-causal.github.io/ggdag/), Malcolm Barrett, Feb 10, 2024 -->
<!-- -   [{ggflowchart}](https://nrennie.rbind.io/ggflowchart/) Nicola Rennie & [{arrowheadr}](https://wjschne.github.io/arrowheadr/) W. Joel Schneider Nov 4, 2023 -->
<!-- -   [{ggeasy}](https://jonocarroll.github.io/ggeasy/) Jonathan Carroll, Sept 2, 2023 -->
<!-- -   [{ggsurvfit}](https://www.danieldsjoberg.com/ggsurvfit/), Daniel Sjoberg, June 10, 2023 -->
<!-- -   [{ggcirclepack}](https://github.com/EvaMaeRey/ggcirclepack), Gina Reynolds, April 15, 2023 -->
<!-- -   [*Fundamentals of Data Visualization*](), Claus Wilke, Jan 28, 2023 -->
<!-- -   [{ggtrace}](https://yjunechoe.github.io/ggtrace/), June Choe, July 16, 2022 -->
<!-- -   [{ggh4x}](https://teunbrand.github.io/ggh4x/), Teun Van Den Brand, June 11, 2022 -->
<!-- -   [{geomtextpath}](https://allancameron.github.io/geomtextpath/) Allan Cameron May 7, 2022 -->
<!-- -   [{ggbump}](https://github.com/davidsjoberg/ggbump) David Sjoberg, April 9, 2022 -->

## Other Resources

**General**

- The [ggplot2](https://github.com/tidyverse/ggplot2) repository

**Extending ggplot2**

- The extending ggplot2 chapters of the [ggplot2
  book](https://ggplot2-book.org/):
  - Chapter 19: [Programming with
    ggplot2](https://ggplot2-book.org/programming.html)
  - Chapter 20: [ggplot2
    internals](https://ggplot2-book.org/internals.html)
  - Chapter 21: [Writing ggplot2
    extensions](https://ggplot2-book.org/extensions.html)
  - Chapter 22: [Case Study:
    Springs](https://ggplot2-book.org/spring1.html)
- The [extending
  ggplot2](https://ggplot2.tidyverse.org/articles/extending-ggplot2.html)
  vignette
- The [ggproto](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/ggproto) tag
  on StackOverflow

**Extensions**

- The [extensions gallery](https://exts.ggplot2.tidyverse.org/gallery/)
- The [Awesome `ggplot2`](https://github.com/erikgahner/awesome-ggplot2)
  repository

**Talks**

- [Extending your ability to extend
  ggplot2](https://www.rstudio.com/resources/rstudioconf-2020/extending-your-ability-to-extend-ggplot2/)
  by Thomas Lin Pederson at rstudio::conf 2020

- [Best practises for programming with
  ggplot2](https://www.rstudio.com/resources/rstudioconf-2020/best-practices-for-programming-with-ggplot2/)
  by Dewey Dunnington at rstudio::conf 2020

- [Cracking open ggplot internals with
  {ggtrace}](https://www.rstudio.com/resources/rstudioconf-2020/best-practices-for-programming-with-ggplot2/)
  by June Choe at rstudio::conf 2022

![](https://github.com/teunbrand/ggplot-extension-club/blob/main/ggextenders-hex_files/figure-html/unnamed-chunk-1-1.png?raw=true)

Commit message:

redirects in README.md
Some ideas on redirects for move just in the readme.md

README.md, after:


# We've moved!  Our new home is [here](https://github.com/ggplot2-extenders/ggplot-extension-club) in the new ggplot2-extenders github organization.  Our website is now [here](https://ggplot2-extenders.github.io/ggplot-extension-club/)

---

 @teunbrand, could you open discussions here, and just put a note that discussions have moved to:   https://github.com/ggplot2-extenders/ggplot-extension-club/discussions  ...

I think we could also do github pages to the *old* address - w/ readme serving the site, and so the 'We've moved' message would appear instead of the 404.

Looks like new traffic has found it's way to the new home, but not sure everyone would manage w/o redirects - not as automatic with user -> organization change, as compared to repo name change.

I need to update this link in the website @ggplot2-extenders, other links are looking okay

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/afd34b3a-da6d-4105-91aa-98ce98c78152)


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# ggplot-extension-club

A repository as a [discussion
place](https://github.com/teunbrand/ggplot-extension-club/discussions)
for extending the ggplot2 R package.

As a bit of background: some people have been meeting virtually every
few months and discussing ggplot2 extension.

This repository will accommodate some discussion outside those meetings
and coordination efforts. Feel free to participate in discussions and be
in touch!

Meetings:

- Tentative June, David Gohels,
  [{ggiraph}](https://davidgohel.github.io/ggiraph/)

- Tentative May, Cynthia Huang, Design principles for plot helper
  functions

- Tentative April, Hassan Kibirige, [plotnine](https://plotnine.org/): A
  Grammar of Graphics for Python

- 2025-03-05, Winston Chang, [The R Graphics
  Cookbook](https://r-graphics.org/) & ggproto

- 2025-02-12, Mitchell O’Hara-Wild, {ggtime} proposal

- 2025-01-21, Teun van den Brand,
  [{legendry}](https://github.com/teunbrand/legendry)

- 2024-12-10, Richard Hanna,
  [{ggswim}](https://github.com/CHOP-CGTInformatics/ggswim)

- 2024-11-13, Cory Brunson,
  [{ordr}](https://github.com/corybrunson/ordr/)

- 2024-10-24, Hadley Wickham,
  [{ggplot2}](https://github.com/tidyverse/ggplot2/), Thoughts on the
  ggplot2 extension ecosystem
  [(recording)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kjjcgdkowXs&feature=youtu.be)

- 2024-10-02, Joseph Larmarange,
  [{ggstats}](https://github.com/larmarange/ggstats/), gglikert() and
  geom_likert()

- 2024-09-10, James Otto,
  [{ggdensity}](https://github.com/jamesotto852/ggdensity/), IRL
  extension culture

- 2024-08-19, Toby Hocking,
  [{animint2}](https://github.com/animint/animint2)

- 2024-06-22, Elio Campitelli,
  [{ggnewscale}](https://github.com/eliocamp/ggnewscale/)

- 2024-05-11, Jonathan Sidi,
  [{ggedit}](https://github.com/yonicd/ggedit)

- 2024-03-12, Di Cook, [{GGally}](https://github.com/ggobi/ggally/), A
  conversation with Di Cook

- 2024-02-10, Malcolm Barrett,
  [{ggdag}](https://github.com/r-causal/ggdag/)

- 2023-11-04, Nicola Rennie,
  [{ggflowchart}](https://github.com/nrennie/ggflowchart)

- 2023-11-04, W. Joel Schneider,
  [{arrowheadr}](https://github.com/wjschne/arrowheadr)

- 2023-09-02, Jonathan Carroll,
  [{ggeasy}](https://github.com/jonocarroll/ggeasy/)

- 2023-06-10, Daniel Sjoberg,
  [{ggsurvfit}](https://github.com/pharmaverse/ggsurvfit/)

- 2023-04-15, Gina Reynolds,
  [{ggcirclepack}](https://github.com/EvaMaeRey/ggcirclepack)

- 2022-01-28, Claus Wilke, [‘Fundamentals of Data
  Visualization’](https://github.com/clauswilke/dataviz) book project

- 2022-07-16, June Choe,
  [{ggtrace}](https://github.com/yjunechoe/ggtrace/)

- 2022-06-11, Teun van den Brand,
  [{ggh4x}](https://github.com/teunbrand/ggh4x/)

- 2022-05-07, Allan Cameron,
  [{geomtextpath}](https://github.com/AllanCameron/geomtextpath/)

- 2022-04-09, David Sjoberg,
  [{ggbump}](https://github.com/davidsjoberg/ggbump)

- 2022-03-19, First meeting

<!-- -   [{animint2}](https://github.com/animint/animint2), Toby Hocking, August 19, 2024 -->
<!-- Past meetings -->
<!-- -   [{ggnewscale}](https://eliocamp.github.io/ggnewscale/), Elio Campitelli, June 22/23, 2024 -->
<!-- -   [{ggedit}](https://yonicd.github.io/ggedit/), Jonathan Sidi, May 11, 2024 -->
<!-- -   A conversation with Di Cook, early extension and [{GGally}](https://ggobi.github.io/ggally/), March 12/13, 2024 -->
<!-- -   [{ggdag}](https://r-causal.github.io/ggdag/), Malcolm Barrett, Feb 10, 2024 -->
<!-- -   [{ggflowchart}](https://nrennie.rbind.io/ggflowchart/) Nicola Rennie & [{arrowheadr}](https://wjschne.github.io/arrowheadr/) W. Joel Schneider Nov 4, 2023 -->
<!-- -   [{ggeasy}](https://jonocarroll.github.io/ggeasy/) Jonathan Carroll, Sept 2, 2023 -->
<!-- -   [{ggsurvfit}](https://www.danieldsjoberg.com/ggsurvfit/), Daniel Sjoberg, June 10, 2023 -->
<!-- -   [{ggcirclepack}](https://github.com/EvaMaeRey/ggcirclepack), Gina Reynolds, April 15, 2023 -->
<!-- -   [*Fundamentals of Data Visualization*](), Claus Wilke, Jan 28, 2023 -->
<!-- -   [{ggtrace}](https://yjunechoe.github.io/ggtrace/), June Choe, July 16, 2022 -->
<!-- -   [{ggh4x}](https://teunbrand.github.io/ggh4x/), Teun Van Den Brand, June 11, 2022 -->
<!-- -   [{geomtextpath}](https://allancameron.github.io/geomtextpath/) Allan Cameron May 7, 2022 -->
<!-- -   [{ggbump}](https://github.com/davidsjoberg/ggbump) David Sjoberg, April 9, 2022 -->

## Other Resources

**General**

- The [ggplot2](https://github.com/tidyverse/ggplot2) repository

**Extending ggplot2**

- The extending ggplot2 chapters of the [ggplot2
  book](https://ggplot2-book.org/):
  - Chapter 19: [Programming with
    ggplot2](https://ggplot2-book.org/programming.html)
  - Chapter 20: [ggplot2
    internals](https://ggplot2-book.org/internals.html)
  - Chapter 21: [Writing ggplot2
    extensions](https://ggplot2-book.org/extensions.html)
  - Chapter 22: [Case Study:
    Springs](https://ggplot2-book.org/spring1.html)
- The [extending
  ggplot2](https://ggplot2.tidyverse.org/articles/extending-ggplot2.html)
  vignette
- The [ggproto](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/ggproto) tag
  on StackOverflow

**Extensions**

- The [extensions gallery](https://exts.ggplot2.tidyverse.org/gallery/)
- The [Awesome `ggplot2`](https://github.com/erikgahner/awesome-ggplot2)
  repository

**Talks**

- [Extending your ability to extend
  ggplot2](https://www.rstudio.com/resources/rstudioconf-2020/extending-your-ability-to-extend-ggplot2/)
  by Thomas Lin Pederson at rstudio::conf 2020

- [Best practises for programming with
  ggplot2](https://www.rstudio.com/resources/rstudioconf-2020/best-practices-for-programming-with-ggplot2/)
  by Dewey Dunnington at rstudio::conf 2020

- [Cracking open ggplot internals with
  {ggtrace}](https://www.rstudio.com/resources/rstudioconf-2020/best-practices-for-programming-with-ggplot2/)
  by June Choe at rstudio::conf 2022

![](https://github.com/teunbrand/ggplot-extension-club/blob/main/ggextenders-hex_files/figure-html/unnamed-chunk-1-1.png?raw=true)
